Fixed and completed type information for socket options (#1385)
Haivision/srt: docs/API.md

There's a general method of setting options on a socket in the SRT C API, similar
to the system setsockopt/getsockopt functions.

Types used in socket options
----------------------------

> Possible types of options are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Possible types of socket options are:
```

> * `int32_t` - usually you can treat it as `int` equivalent, as this type
> wasn't changed the size on 64-bit systems, although the definition is using
> `int32_t` type so that the bit size is fixed by definition. In some cases
> the value is expressed using an enumeration type (see below).
> 
> * `int64_t` - some options need the paramter specified as 64-bit integer
> 
> * `bool` - You need to use a boolean type, the builtin one in C++ and the
> one from `<stdbool.h>` for C, although when setting an option, passing the
> value through `int` type is also tolerated and properly recognized. When
> getting an option, however, you better use the `bool` type, although you
> can risk passing a variable of `int` type initialized with 0 and then check if
> the resulting value is equal to 0 (just don't compare the result with 1).
> 
> * `string` - When setting, you pass the character array pointer as value
> and the string length as length. When getting, you have to pass a long
> enough array (with specified size in the size variable). Every option with
> this type that can be read should specify the maximum length of that array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `int32_t` - This type does not change size on 64-bit systems, and can usually be 
treated as an `int` equivalent. The bit size is fixed by definition. In some cases the 
value is expressed using an enumeration type (see below).

* `int64_t` - Some options need the parameter specified as a 64-bit integer

* `bool` - Requires the use of a boolean type (`<stdbool.h>` for C, or built-in for C++).
When setting an option, passing the value through an `int` type is also properly recognized. When getting an option, however, you should use the `bool` type, although you
can risk passing a variable of `int` type initialized with 0 and then check if 
the resulting value is equal to 0 (just don't compare the result with 1).

* `string` - When setting an option, pass the character array pointer as value and 
the string length as length. When getting, pass an array of sufficient size (as specified 
in the size variable). Every option with this type that can be read should specify the 
maximum length of that array.
```

Author: As for `int32_t`: what I meant here is that the size of `int` type didn't change in 64-bit systems, meaning, you can still use `int` instead of `int32_t` - just `int32_t`, as a fixed-size integer, is used for clarity. I changed it to:

```
* `int32_t` - this type can usually be treated as an `int` equivalent since
this type does not change size on 64-bit systems. For clarity, options use
this fixed size integer. In some cases the value is expressed using an
enumeration type (see below).
```

Reviewer: Very good.

Enumeration types used in options
---------------------------------

> ### 1. `SRT_TRANSTYPE`. Used by `SRTO_TRANSTYPE` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. `SRT_TRANSTYPE`

Used by `SRTO_TRANSTYPE` option:
```

* `SRTT_LIVE`: Live mode.
* `SRTT_FILE`: File mode.

See below [Transmission types](#transmission-types) for details.

> ### 2. `SRT_KM_STATE`. This defined encryption state as performed by the Key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. `SRT_KM_STATE`

This defined encryption state as performed by the Key
```

Material Exchange, used by `SRTO_RCVKMSTATE`, `SRTO_SNDKMSTATE` and
`SRTO_KMSTATE` options:

- `SRT_KM_S_UNSECURED`: no encryption/descryption. If this state is only on
the receiver, received encrypted packets will be dropped.

- `SRT_KM_S_SECURING`: pending security (HSv4 only). This is a temporary state

> used only if the connection is made has HSv4 and the Key Material Exchange is
> not finished yet. On HSv5 not possible because Key Material Exchange for the
> initial key is done in the handshake.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
used only if the connection uses HSv4 and the Key Material Exchange is
not finished yet. On HSv5 this is not possible because the Key Material Exchange for the
initial key is done in the handshake.
```

- `SRT_KM_S_SECURED`: KM exchange was successful and the data will be sent

> enrypted and decrypted by the receiver. This state is only possible on both

Reviewer: ```suggestion
encrypted, to be decrypted by the receiver. This state is only possible on both
```

Author: I changed it to:

- `SRT_KM_S_SECURED`: KM exchange was successful and the data will be sent
encrypted and will be decrypted by the receiver. This state is only possible on
both sides in both directions simultaneously.

It was here important to highlight that the decryption by the receiver is not alleged or expected, but will really be done. Sounds not exactly good for me, may need more fixups.

Reviewer: Your suggested change is fine as is.

sides in both directions simultaneously.

> - `SRT_KM_S_NOSECRET`: (HSv5 only) This site has set password, but data will 
> be received as plain. This also means that sending the data from this party
> will not be received by the peer due to impossible decryption.

Reviewer: @ethouris This description is unclear to me, but here is my attempt at rewording it:

```suggestion
- `SRT_KM_S_NOSECRET`: (HSv5 only) The sender has set a password, but data will 
be received as plain. This also means it will be impossible for the receiver to decrypt any data being sent.
```

Author: I said "this site" because I meant the site where this state is visible.

To make you imagine the situation: this is when you have two parties:

[A] -> password=(something was set), state=SRT_KM_S_NOSECRET
[B] -> password=(not set), state=SRT_KM_S_UNSECURED

In this configuration [B] will be able to send payloads to [A], unencrypted, and [A] will correctly receive it, while although [A] could send packets to [B], but they will be encrypted and [B] will be unable to decrypt them.

The description is for what exactly the state is on the [A] site. I'm not changing it now, proposed description would be:

This state means that the agent has set the password, but the peer did not. In this case the agent can receive unencrypted packets from the peer, but packets sent by the agent to the peer will be encrypted and the peer will not be able to decrypt them.

Reviewer: How about:

`If this state is in the sending direction (`SRTO_SNDKMSTATE`), then it means that the sending party 
has set a passphrase, but the peer did not. In this case the sending party can receive unencrypted packets 
from the peer, but packets it sends to the peer will be encrypted and the peer will not be able to decrypt them. 
This state is only possible in HSv5.
`

Author: Perfect.

> - `SRT_KM_S_BADSECRET`: The password is wrong (set differently on each party),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `SRT_KM_S_BADSECRET`: The password is wrong (set differently on each party);
```

> - `SRT_KM_S_BADSECRET`: The password is wrong (set differently on each party),
> encrypted payloads won't be decrypted in any direction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `SRT_KM_S_BADSECRET`: The password is wrong (set differently on each party);
encrypted payloads won't be decrypted in either direction.
```

> Note that with the default value of `SRTO_ENFORCEDENCRYPTION` option (true),
> the state is equal on both sides in both directions and it can be only
> `SRT_KM_S_UNSECURED` or `SRT_KM_S_SECURED` (in other cases the connection
> is rejected). Otherwise it may happen that either both sides have different
> password and the state is `SRT_KM_S_BADSECRET` in both direction, or we
> have a situation where only one party has set a password, in which case
> the party that hasn't set the password has:
> 
> * `SRT_KM_S_NOSECRET` on `SRTO_RCVKMSTATE`
> * `SRT_KM_S_UNSECURED` on `SRTO_SNDKMSTATE`
> 
> and its peer the other way around.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that with the default value of `SRTO_ENFORCEDENCRYPTION` option (true),
the state is equal on both sides in both directions, and it can be only
`SRT_KM_S_UNSECURED` or `SRT_KM_S_SECURED` (in other cases the connection
is rejected). Otherwise it may happen that either both sides have a different
password and the state is `SRT_KM_S_BADSECRET` in both directions, or only one 
party has set a password, in which case the party that hasn't set the password has:

* `SRT_KM_S_NOSECRET` on `SRTO_RCVKMSTATE`
* `SRT_KM_S_UNSECURED` on `SRTO_SNDKMSTATE`

In such a case, its peer would have the inverse settings.
```

Author: I changed the last line to `and the peer similarly, with the directions inverted.`, but that also doesn't sound good for me.

What I meant is that peer will have:

* `SRT_KM_S_NOSECRET` on `SRTO_SNDKMSTATE`
* `SRT_KM_S_UNSECURED` on `SRTO_RCVKMSTATE`

Just didn't want to go so elaborate.

Reviewer: How about:

```
party has set a password, in which case the KM state settings are as follows:

|                          | `SRTO_RCVKMSTATE`    | `SRTO_SNDKMSTATE`    |
|--------------------------|----------------------|----------------------|
| Party with no password:  | `SRT_KM_S_NOSECRET`  | `SRT_KM_S_UNSECURED` |
| Peer with password:      | `SRT_KM_S_UNSECURED` | `SRT_KM_S_NOSECRET`  |

```
And then just remove the last line.

Author: Magnificent.

    int srt_setsockflag(SRTSOCKET socket, SRT_SOCKOPT optName, const void* optval, int optlen);

(In the legacy version, there's an additional unused `level` parameter. It was there
in the original UDT API just to mimic the system `setsockopt` function, but it's ignored).

Some options require a value of type bool and some others of an integer type,
which is not the same -- they differ in size, and mistaking them may end up
with a crash. This must be kept in mind especially in any C wrapper. For
convenience, the setting option function may accept both `int32_t` and `bool`
types, but this is not so in the case of getting an option value.

**UDT project legacy note**: Almost all options from the UDT library are

> derived (there are a few deleted, including some deprecated already in UDT),
> many new SRT options have been added. All options are available exclusively

Reviewer: ```suggestion
derived (there are a few deleted, including some deprecated already in UDT).
Many new SRT options have been added. All options are available exclusively
```

with the `SRTO_` prefix. Old names are provided as alias names in the `udt.h`
legacy/C++ API file. Note the translation rules:
* `UDT_` prefix from UDT options was changed to the prefix `SRTO_`
* `UDP_` prefix from UDT options was changed to the prefix `SRTO_UDP_`
* `SRT_` prefix in older SRT versions was changed to `SRTO_`

> The below table shows the characteristics of the options. Legend:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table further below shows the characteristics of the options, according to the following legend:
```

1. **Since**

Defines the SRT version when this option was first introduced. If this field

> is empty, it's an option derived from UDT. Version 0.0.0 is the oldest version

Reviewer: Version 0.0.0? Is this a placeholder?

Author: It's simply stating that the actual version when it was introduced is unknown, but it's stated that it's there since always.

Reviewer: `is empty, it's an option derived from UDT. "Version 0.0.0" refers to the oldest version
`

of SRT ever created and put into use.

2. **Binding**

Defines limitation on setting the option (the field is empty if the option
is not settable, see **Dir** column):

* pre: For a connecting socket (both as caller and rendezvous) it must be set
prior to calling `srt_connect()` or `srt_bind()` and never changed thereafter.
For a listener socket it should be set to a listening socket and it will be
derived by every socket returned by `srt_accept()`.

* post: This flag can be changed any time, including after the socket is
connected (as well as on an accepted socket). On a listening socket setting this
flag is effective only on this socket itself. Note though that there are some
post-bound options that have important meaning when set prior to connecting.

3. **Type**

The data type of the option; see above.

> 4. Units

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Units**
```

Roughly specified unit, if the value defines things like length or time.

> It can also define more precisely, what kind of specialization can be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can also define more precisely what kind of specialization can be used
```

when the type is integer:

* enum: the possible values are defined in an enumeration type
* flags: the integer value is a collection of bit flags

> 5. Default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **Default**
```

> The exact default value, if it can be easily specified. For more complicated
> state of the default state of particular option, it will be explained in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exact default value, if it can be easily specified. For a more complicated
default state of particular option, it will be explained in the
```

description (when marked by asterisk). For non-settable options this field is
empty.

> 6. Range

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. **Range**
```

If a value of an integer type has a limited range, or only specified value
allowed, it will be specified here, otherwise empty. A ranged value can be
specified as:

* X-... : specifies only a minimum value
* X-Y,Z : values between X and Y are allowed, and additionally Z

If the value is of `string` type, this field will contain its maximum size
in square brackets.

If the range contains additionally an asterisk, it means that more elaborate
restrictions on the value apply, as explained in the description.

> 7. Dir

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. **Dir**
```

Option direction: W if can be set, R if can be retrieved, RW if both.

> 6. Entity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. **Entity**
```

(which can be used as a workaround for this connection problem with earlier
versions).

---

| OptName           | Since | Binding | Type      | Units  | Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| ----------------- | ----- | ------- | --------- | ------ | -------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_EVENT`      |       |         | `int32_t` | flags  |          |        | R   | S      |

- Returns bit flags set according to the current active events on the socket. 
- Possible values are those defined in `SRT_EPOLL_OPT` enum (a combination of 
`SRT_EPOLL_IN`, `SRT_EPOLL_OUT` and `SRT_EPOLL_ERR`).

---

| OptName           | Since | Binding | Type      | Units  | Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| ----------------- | ----- | ------- | --------- | ------ | -------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_FC`         |       | pre     | `int32_t` | pkts   | 25600    | 32..   | RW  | GSD    |

- Flight Flag Size (maximum number of bytes that can be sent without 
being acknowledged)

---

| OptName              | Since | Binding | Type      | Units  | Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| -------------------- | ----- | ------- | --------- | ------ | -------- | ------ | --- | ------ |

> | `SRTO_GROUPCONNECT`  |       | pre     | `int32_t` |        | 0        | 0...1  | W   | S      |

Author: Here is a problem: This option has the earliest version when it was introduced. Needs to be fixed. Probably it should be 1.5.0

The + marker can only coexist with GS.

Possible specifications are:

* S: This option can be set on a single socket (exclusively, if not GS)

* G: This option can be set on a group (exclusively, if not GS)

* D: If set on a group, it will be derived by the member socket

* I: If set on a group, it will be taken and managed exclusively by the group

* +: This option is also allowed to be set individually on a group member
socket through a configuration object in `SRT_SOCKGROUPCONFIG` prepared by
`srt_create_config`. Note that this setting may override the setting derived
from the group.

This option list is sorted alphabetically.

| OptName            | Since | Binding |   Type    | Units  | Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| ------------------ | ----- | ------- | --------- | ------ | -------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_CONNTIMEO`   | 1.1.2 | pre     | `int32_t` | msec   | 3000     | 0..    | W   | GSD+   |

- Connect timeout. This option applies to the caller and rendezvous connection
modes. The connect timeout is 10 times the value set for the rendezvous mode
(which can be used as a workaround for this connection problem with earlier

> versions).

Reviewer 2: > The connect timeout is 10 times the value set for the rendezvous mode ...

Not very clear which rendezvous option is meant here.

Author: There's only one `SRTO_RENDEZVOUS` option in SRT.

Reviewer 2: So, if `SRTO_RENDEZVOUS` is set, then the `SRTO_CONNTIMEO` has a different value? What is the meaning of the sentence?

Author: If `SRTO_RENDEZVOUS` is set and `SRTO_CONNTIMEO` is set to default 3000ms, the effective connection timeout will be after 30s.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this way then?

Connect timeout. This option applies to the caller and rendezvous connection
modes. For the rendezvous mode (see `SRTO_RENDEZVOUS`) the effective connection timeout
will be 10 times the value set with `SRTO_CONNTIMEO`.

Author: Yes, definitely better.

---

| OptName               | Since | Binding | Type       | Units  | Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| --------------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------ | -------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_GROUPSTABTIMEO` |       | pre     | `int32_t`  | ms     | 40       | 10-... | W   | GSD+   |

- This setting is used for groups of type `SRT_GTYPE_BACKUP`. It defines the stability 
timeout, which is the maximum interval between two consecutive packets retrieved from 
the peer on the currently active link. These two packets can be of any type,
but this setting usually refers to control packets while the agent is a sender.
Idle links exchange only keepalive messages once per second, so they do not
count. Note that this option is meaningless on sockets that are not members of
the Backup-type group.

- This value should be set with a thoroughly selected balance and correspond to
the maximum stretched response time between two consecutive ACK messages. By default

> ACK messages are sent every 10ms (so this interval is not dependent on RTT at all),

Reviewer: (so this interval is not dependent on RTT at all)

IANAE, but this statement seems contentious to me, and, in any case, is not necessary in the description of ACK intervals. Maybe remove it?

Author: I think this explanation is necessary for people to properly configure this option.

It could be written differently, but this actually explains what this option is about. Maybe you'll have some idea how to describe it.

The situation is that ACK messages are sent with 10ms interval:
|    |    |    |    |    |    |    |

But the network jitter may make them at the delivery seen this way:
|    |            | | |  |         ||

This large space after the second bar is the highly stretched response time, which should be still understood as that the link remains maintained. Therefore `groupstabtimeo` option should be set to a value that exceeds the most possibly stretched consecutive response time. If this response time is exceeded, the link will be considered unstable (that is: the group takes a precaution that this link might indeed be broken, and therefore activates a backup link immediately).

Reviewer: Proposed rewrite of lines 680 to 694:
```

This setting is used for groups of type `SRT_GTYPE_BACKUP`. It has no effect on 
sockets that are not members of the Backup-type group. Idle links exchange only 
keepalive messages once per second, so they do not count.

- The value of `SRTO_GROUPSTABTIMEO` defines the stability timeout, which is the 
maximum acceptable interval between two consecutive packets retrieved from a 
peer on the currently active link. These two packets can be of any type, but this 
setting usually refers to control packets. For example, the default interval between 
ACK messages is 10ms. However, network jitter may increase the actual interval, 
sometimes by multiples of the default. `SRTO_GROUPSTABTIMEO` can be used to 
account for such increases in determining link stability. If this response time is 
exceeded, the link will be considered unstable. The group responds to the 
potentially broken link by immediately activating a backup link. Note that the 
value of `SRTO_GROUPSTABTIMEO` must be carefully chosen in consideration of the 
consequences of between being too high or too low: 

```

> and so should be the distance between two consecutive received ACK messages,
> however the network jitter in public internet causes these intervals to be
> stretched even to multiplicity of that interval. Both great and little values
> of this option have consequences:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and so should be the interval between two consecutive received ACK messages.
Note, however, that network jitter on the public internet causes these intervals to be
stretched, even to multiples of that interval. Both large and small values
of this option have consequences:
```

> - Great value of this option prevents overreaction on highly streteched response
> times, but this value comprises a latency penalty - the latency must be greater
> than this value or otherwise switching to another link won't be able to preserve
> smooth signal sending. High values will also contribute to higher burst of
> packets sent at the moment when an idle link is activated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Large values of this option prevent overreaction on highly stretched response
times, but introduce a latency penalty - the latency must be greater
than this value (otherwise switching to another link won't preserve
smooth signal sending). Large values will also contribute to higher 
packet bursts sent at the moment when an idle link is activated.
```

> - Little value of this option lives up to the low latency reqirements very
> well, however too little values may cause overreaction on even slightly
> stretched response times. This is unwanted, as the link switch should
> ideally happen only when the currently active link is really broken, as
> every link switching costs extra overhead (it counts for 100% for a time
> of one ACK interval).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Smaller values of this option respect low latency requirements very
well, but may cause overreaction on even slightly
stretched response times. This is unwanted, as a link switch should
ideally happen only when the currently active link is really broken, as
every link switch costs extra overhead (it counts for 100% for a time
of one ACK interval).
```

---

| OptName              | Since | Binding | Type       |  Units  | Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| -------------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | -------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_MESSAGEAPI`    | 1.3.0 | pre     | bool       |         | true     |        | W   | GSD    |

- When set, this socket uses the Message API[\*], otherwise it uses 

> Stream API. Note that in live mode (see `SRTO_TRANSTYPE` option) there's only 
> message API available. In File mode you can chose to use one of two modes (note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stream API. Note that in live mode (see `SRTO_TRANSTYPE` option) only 
the message API available. In File mode you can chose to use one of two modes (note
```

---

| OptName              | Since | Binding | Type       |  Units  | Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| -------------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | -------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_PASSPHRASE`    | 0.0.0 | pre     | string     |         | ""       |[10..79]| W   | GSD    |

> - Sets the passphrase for encryption. This turns encryption on on this side (or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sets the passphrase for encryption. This enables encryption on this party (or
```

used to generate the Key Encrypting Key using [PBKDF2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PBKDF2) 
(Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2). It is used on the receiver only if 
the received data is encrypted.

- Note that since the bidirectional support, there's only one initial SEK to encrypt
the stream (new keys after refreshing will be updated independently) and there's no
distinction between "service party that defines the password" and "client party that
is required to set matching password" - both parties are equivalent and in order to
have a working encrypted connection, they have to simply set the same passphrase,
otherwise the connection is rejected by default (see also `SRTO_ENFORCEDENCRYPTION`).

---

| OptName              | Since | Binding | Type       |  Units  | Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| -------------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | -------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_PAYLOADSIZE`   | 1.3.0 | pre     | `int32_t`  | bytes   | *        | *      | W   | GSD    |

- Sets the maximum declared size of a single call to sending function in Live
mode. When set to 0, there's no limit for a single sending call.

> - For Live mode: Default value is 1316, can be increased up to 1456. Mind the
> `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` option, as with this option an additional header space is
> usually required, which decreases the maximum value for this option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For Live mode: Default value is 1316, can be increased up to 1456. 
Note that with the `SRTO_PACKETFILTER` option additional header 
space is usually required, which decreases the maximum possible 
value for `SRTO_PAYLOADSIZE`.
```

| `SRTO_PEERLATENCY`   | 1.3.0 | pre     | `int32_t`  | ms      | 0        | 0..    | RW  | GSD    |

- The latency value (as described in `SRTO_RCVLATENCY`) that is set by the sender 
side as a minimum value for the receiver.

- Note that when reading, the value will report the preset value on a non-connected
socket, and the effective value on a connected socket.

---

| OptName              | Since | Binding | Type       |  Units  | Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| -------------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | -------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_PEERVERSION`   | 1.1.0 |         | `int32_t`  | *       |          |        | R   | GS     |

- SRT version used by the peer. The value 0 is returned if not connected, SRT 
handshake not yet performed (HSv4 only), or if peer is not SRT. See `SRTO_VERSION` 
for the version format. 

---

| OptName              | Since | Binding | Type       |  Units  |   Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| -------------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | ---------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_RCVBUF`        |       | pre     | `int32_t`  | bytes   | 8192 bufs  | *      | RW  | GSD+   |

> - Receive Buffer Size, in bytes. Note however that the internal setting of this
> value is in the number of buffers, each one of size equal to SRT payload size,
> which is the value of `SRTO_MSS` decreased by UDP and SRT header sizes (28 and 16).
> The value set here will be effectively aligned to the multiplicity of payload size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Receive Buffer Size, in bytes. Note, however, that the internal setting of this
value is in the number of buffers, each one of size equal to SRT payload size,
which is the value of `SRTO_MSS` decreased by UDP and SRT header sizes (28 and 16).
The value set here will be effectively aligned to a multiple of payload size.
```

| ----------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | ---------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_RCVDATA`    |       |         | `int32_t`  | pkts    |            |        | R   | S      |

- Size of the available data in the receive buffer.

---

| OptName           | Since | Binding | Type       |  Units  |   Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| ----------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | ---------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_RCVKMSTATE` | 1.2.0 |         | `int32_t`  | enum    |            |        | R   | S      |
 
- KM state on the agent side when it's a receiver.

- Values defined in enum `SRT_KM_STATE` (see [SRT_KM_STATE](#srt-km-state))

---

| OptName           | Since | Binding | Type       |  Units  |   Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| ----------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | ---------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_RCVLATENCY` | 1.3.0 | pre     | `int32_t`  | msec    | *          | 0..    | RW  | GSD    |

- Latency value in the receiving direction. This value is only significant when
`SRTO_TSBPDMODE` is set to true.

> - Latency is the time that should elapse since the moment when the packet was
> sent and the moment when it's delivered to the receiver application in the
> receiving function. This time should be a buffer time large enough to cover
> the time spent for sending, unexpectedly extended RTT time, and the time needed
> to retransmit the lost UDP packet. The effective latency value will be the
> maximum of this options' value and the value of `SRTO_PEERLATENCY` set by the
> peer side. **This option in pre-1.3.0 version is available only as**
> `SRTO_LATENCY`. Note that the real latency value may be slightly different
> than this setting due to impossibility of perfectly measuring the exact same
> time point in both parties simultaneously; the most important meaning of
> latency is that the actual value of it once set with the connection is
> kept constant during the whole time of the connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Latency refers to the time that elapses from the moment a packet is sent 
to the moment when it's delivered to a receiver application. The SRT latency 
setting should be a buffer large enough to cover the time spent for sending, 
unexpectedly extended RTT time, and the time needed to retransmit any lost 
UDP packet. The effective latency value will be the maximum between the 
`SRTO_RCVLATENCY` value and the value of `SRTO_PEERLATENCY` set by 
the peer side. **This option in pre-1.3.0 version is available only as** 
`SRTO_LATENCY`. Note that the real latency value may be slightly different 
than this setting due to the impossibility of perfectly measuring exactly the 
same point in time at both parties simultaneously. What is important with 
latency is that its actual value, once set with the connection, is kept constant 
throughout the duration of a connection.
```

- Note that it is not recommended to change this option manually, but you should
rather change the whole set of options through `SRTO_TRANSTYPE` option.

---

| OptName           | Since | Binding | Type       |  Units  |  Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| ----------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | --------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_SNDBUF`     |       | pre     | `int32_t`  | bytes   |8192 bufs  | *      | RW  | GSD+   |

- Sender Buffer Size. See `SRTO_RCVBUF` for more information.

---

| OptName           | Since | Binding | Type       |  Units  |  Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| ----------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | --------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_SNDDATA`    |       |         | `int32_t`  | pkts    |           |        | R   | S      |

- Size of the unacknowledged data in send buffer.

---

| OptName              | Since | Binding | Type       |  Units  |  Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| -------------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | --------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_SNDDROPDELAY`  | 1.3.2 | pre     | `int32_t`  | ms      | *         | -1..   | W   | GSD+   |

> - Sets an extra delay before TLPKTDROP is triggered on the data sender.
> Extra, that is, it is added to the default drop delay time interval value.
> The longer the time, the more probable that packets would be retransmitted
> uselessly because they will be dropped by the receiver anyway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sets an extra delay before TLPKTDROP is triggered on the data sender.
This delay is added to the default drop delay time interval value. Keep in mind 
that the longer the delay, the more probable it becomes that packets would be 
retransmitted uselessly because they will be dropped by the receiver anyway.
```

- TLPKTDROP discards packets reported as lost if it is already too late
to send them (the receiver would discard them even if received). The delay
before TLPKTDROP mechanism is triggered consists of the SRT latency
(`SRTO_PEERLATENCY`), plus `SRTO_SNDDROPDELAY`, plus `2 * interval between
sending ACKs` (the default `interval between sending ACKs` is 10 milliseconds).
The minimum delay is `1000 + 2 * interval between sending ACKs` milliseconds.

> - Special value -1: Do not drop packets on the sender at all (retransmit them always when requested).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Special value -1**: Do not drop packets on the sender at all (retransmit them always when requested).
```

| -------------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | --------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_SNDTIMEO`      |       | post    | `int32_t`  | ms      | -1        | -1..   | RW  | GSI    |

- limit the time up to which the sending operation will block (see
`SRTO_SNDSYN` for details), so when this time is exceeded, it will behave as
if in "non-blocking mode". The -1 value means no time limit.

---

| OptName              | Since | Binding | Type       |  Units  |  Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| -------------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | --------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_STATE`         |       |         | `int32_t`  |  enum   |           |        | R   | S      |

- Returns the current socket state, same as `srt_getsockstate`.

---

| OptName              | Since | Binding | Type       |  Units  |  Default  | Range  | Dir | Entity |
| -------------------- | ----- | ------- | ---------- | ------- | --------- | ------ | --- | ------ |
| `SRTO_STREAMID`      | 1.3.0 | pre     | `string`   |         | ""        | [512]  | RW  | GSD    |

> - A string that can be set on the socket prior to connecting. This stream ID
> will be able to be retrieved by the listener side from the socket that is
> returned from `srt_accept` and was connected by a socket with that set stream
> ID (so you usually use SET on the socket used for `srt_connect` and GET on the
> socket retrieved from `srt_accept`). This string can be used completely
> free-form, however it's highly recommended to follow the
> [SRT Access Control guidlines](AccessControl.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A string that can be set on the socket prior to connecting. The listener side 
will be able to retrieve this stream ID from the socket that is returned from 
`srt_accept` (for a connected socket with that stream ID). You usually use SET 
on the socket used for `srt_connect`, and GET on the socket retrieved from 
`srt_accept`. This string can be used completely free-form. However, it's highly 
recommended to follow the [SRT Access Control guidlines](AccessControl.md).
```

- As this uses internally the `std::string` type, there are additional functions
for it in the legacy/C++ API (udt.h): `srt::setstreamid` and
`srt::getstreamid`.

> - This option doesn't make sense in Rendezvous connection; the result might be
> that simply one side will override the value from the other side and it's the
> matter of luck which one would win

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This option is not useful for a Rendezvous connection, since one side would 
override the value from the other side resulting in an arbitrary winner.
```
